[TASK] Demonstrate how to extend a docker image (#5659)
TYPO3-Documentation/TYPO3CMS-Reference-CoreApi: Documentation/Administration/Docker/AutomateSetup/Index.rst

..  literalinclude:: _codesnippets/_Dockerfile
    :language: docker
    :caption: Dockerfile

..  _docker-cli-automated-setup-startup:

Create a startup script that runs TYPO3 setup
=============================================

The startup script checks if TYPO3 has already been installed. If not, it runs
the `typo3 setup` CLI command in non-interactive mode using environment
variables defined in Docker Compose.

..  literalinclude:: _codesnippets/_startup.sh
    :language: bash
    :caption: startup.sh

This script:

-   Detects if TYPO3 has already been installed
-   Runs the CLI-based `setup` command only once
-   Starts Apache in the foreground as required for Docker

..  note::

    The `gosu` command is used instead of `su` to preserve environment variables
    passed by Docker Compose. Without this, the `typo3 setup` command would not
    receive the necessary database and admin credentials.

..  tip::

    If you see this message in the logs:
    `AH00558: apache2: Could not reliably determine the server's fully qualified domain name...`

>     you can safely ignore it, or suppress it by setting `ServerName localhost` in Apache's config.

Reviewer: using `ServerName localhost` is incorrect

>     you can safely ignore it, or suppress it by setting `ServerName localhost` in Apache's config.

Author: I removed it

:navigation-title: Automate TYPO3 Setup

..  include:: /Includes.rst.txt
..  _docker-cli-automated-setup:

==================================
Automate TYPO3 setup using the CLI
==================================

> This section demonstrates how to fully automate TYPO3 installation using the CLI

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This section demonstrates how to fully automate a TYPO3 installation using the CLI
```

command `typo3 setup`, removing the need to complete the install wizard in the
browser.

This is particularly useful for repeatable local setups, CI pipelines, or scripted
Docker environments.

..  note::

    While this example uses a classic TYPO3 installation based on the
    `martinhelmich/typo3` image, the same approach can be adapted for
    Composer-based projects. To do so, use a different base image (e.g.
    `php:8.4-apache`) and update the CLI path to match the Composer installation,
    typically `vendor/bin/typo3`.

..  contents:: Table of contents

..  _docker-cli-automated-setup-dockerfile:

Update the Dockerfile to install gosu and Node.js
=================================================

> Extend the Dockerfile to install `gosu`, which allows safe user switching, and
> to include the `startup.sh` script that performs the setup automation:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Extend the Dockerfile to install gosu, which enables secure user switching, and include the startup.sh script to automate the setup process.
```
